<p>

In human history, it was discovered that intentionally fermented drinks existed as early as the Neolithic period, and the production of alcoholic drinks could trace back to 7000–5600 BC. Distillation was possibly practiced by the Babylonians in Mesopotamia in the 2nd millennium BC to make perfumes and aromatics. There is evidence that medieval Arabs distilled alcohol, and the process later spread to Italy during the 12th century. In China, archaeological evidence indicates the distillery of alcohol began during the 12th century Jin or Southern Song dynasties.

The distillation technique spread to Ireland and Scotland no later than 15th century, where the initial purpose was to create medicines. In Scotland, the first evidence of whisky production comes from an entry in the Exchequer Rolls for 1494-95, which lists an order from King James IV for malts to make aqua vitae (spirit alcohol). By the 16th century, whisky distillation was widely practiced on farms throughout Scotland and Ireland. The tax law on spirits was introduced in 1644 under which licensed commercial distillers started to operate by the end of the 17th century. With demand increased dramatically during the 18th century, the official production of aqua vitae almost tripled itself from 1708 to 1738, during which the term uisce beatha (the name for whisky in Irish) transited to uiskie, then to usky and finally to whiksy.

During the early production of whisky, only a single type of malt was used. In 1850, Andrew Usher introduced the idea of blended whisky, which is distilled from unmalted barley, wheat of maize. By the 1880s, the French brandy industry was devastated by the phylloxera pest that ruined much of the grape crop. As a result, whisky became the primary liquor in many markets.

During World War I, many distilleries were closed to preserve barley stocks for food, and the distillation stopped again during World War II. By 1945, the Scotch whiksy industry had suffered 45 years decline, caused by three wars, US prohibition, temperance, aggressive taxation, and hostile legislation. Things could not go worse in such a situation. Many distilleries reopened during the 1960s and modern techniques were widely used for greater efficiency.

Nowadays, Scotland is still the leading force in whisky production. Other regions like Ireland, US, Canada, and Japan also have decent market share with their unique products (check Distillery Map and Data - Distillery). Different ingredients besides malt are utilized to produce a variety of whisky types. Though a lot of distilleries still prefer to maintain the classic way in whiksy production, new techniques were introduced to meet higher market demand.

Using scientific methods to improve whisky production can trace back to victoria period, nonetheless, the analysis with the help chemistry was possibly introduced in the 70s. Studies applying statistics, especially flavor classifications on whiskies only emerged around 1990s. And it still remains an underdeveloped area with a handful of papers published. For papers and books in this subject, please refer to About - Reference.

Inspired by these papers, this work utilizes data science methods to analyze and classify whisky flavor, based on which a recommender system is built to suggest potential whisky candidates that the user may favor. It also provides a distillery map and other data visualizations to assist users for a better understanding of this work and whisky in general. For details, please go to Ideas Behind - Data Collection, EDA and Recommender. To learn the limitation of this work, please refer to the Ideas Behind - Limitation.

Enjoy!
