## Existing Work

Using statistical methods to study whisky characteristics is a relatively underdeveloped area with only a handful of papers published. Commercial websites specializing in whiskies tend to only provide historical and product information, reviews and tasting notes rather than scientific analysis report. A few individuals and websites that offer such reports often focus on a single area like database construction or inferential analysis. Websites that have implemented whisky recommender systems keep them as a commercial secret which is not available to the general public. There are a handful of software projects that give recommendations, but they are mostly based on a single source of distillery flavor data thus could only recommend distilleries instead of individual bottles to the user.

## Data Collection

There are very few data available for whisky products and distilleries, most of which is incomplete and outdated. Public data for whisky products usually do not cover any flavor profile which makes it impractical to be used in this work. Some commercial websites have the recent data but will not make it public due to apparent reasons. Therefore, web scraping is the only choice to acquire the proper data but it requires a lot of trials and errors in real practice.

## Whiksy Flavor Vocabulary

To the date of completion of this work, there is no standard or any dominant whisky flavor vocabulary used by experts as well as amateurs. People tend to borrow words from wine to describe whiskies, which is often enough to write reviews and even reports. But for classification and recommender systems, a more systematic method should be developed. The reason for this lies in the fact that some words to describe flavors overlap each other a lot, such as briny and salty. And not all flavors are equal, some provide more information than others. This can be clearly illustrated in the Ideas Behind - EDA where the first three principal components explain nearly 60% of the total variance. Thus when constructing a flavor profile for whisky, the words used in this process should be very carefully selected to ensure that the dominant flavors are always included as weel as a consideration for subordinate ones for greater descriptive diversity.

A properly constructed flavor vocabulary also helps in text mining based on reviews to build flavor profiles. A tree structure flavor vocabulary is preferred (like the one in Insight - Flavor Vocabulary) since subordinate flavors can be combined into fewer flavor by climbing down the tree. A database designed for sentiment analysis in whisky domain may also be needed to predict opinions and ratings from reviews, which is currently not available to the public.

## Cold Start Problem

Various types of recommender systems have been developed these years for different purposes with their unique characteristics. Common ones can include user based, item based, content-based and knowledge-based recommender systems. Methods used for these systems vary from collaborative filtering to latent factor models. But generally, most techniques can be viewed to solve a matrix completion and reconstruction problem, where a matrix or a series of matrices are used to link users and items together.

For most online recommender systems like Netflix or Amazon, there is a mature user and item dataset that is already constructed. Such a database is the foundation of recommender systems without which methods like collaborative filtering cannot be achieved.

For standalone recommender system like this work, there is no previous user database available. Such a problem is typically referred to as the cold start problem which is very common in any new recommender systems. Most companies tackle this issue by trying to increase their user base, which is not practical for this work. Therefore, a knowledge-based recommender system is the only choice but such a system lacks the ability for dynamic recommendations since the item property space and the algorithms used are relatively fixed. This is also a well-known issue, thus, only complicated products purchased with less frequency and higher prices, like cars, are good candidates for this method. Whiskies can fit into this category, but it's still better to have user data available in order to give a more accurate and dynamic recommendation. After all, more data are usually better than less if both used properly and data are always the most crucial factor which determines the upper quality of the final work.
